If you want to make more content faster,
all you need is a better system. And the
truth is, this is the secret for how all
the top creators and brands are
generating so much more traction than
everyone else. They've all built winning
content systems using a specific
combination of AI tools. Now, I'll be
honest, most AI tools are absolute
trash, and the ones that aren't are
usually way too general to actually help
you with content unless you really know
what you're doing. But here's the good
news. I built a workflow that uses AI
tools to speed up the content creation
process significantly. It's some AI and
some human. And this isn't faceless AI
slop content. These are the actual
videos that I post that get tens of
millions of views every single month.
So, in this video, I'm going to break
down my entire AI content system. This
is my five-step workflow that uses AI
tools to generate highquality videos way
faster than normal. And by the way, if
you don't know me, my name is Callaway.
I have a million followers. I've done
billions of views. and I'm one of the
biggest creators in both the AI and
content marketing spaces. So, this
intersection AI and content is all I do
all day long. All right, the first step,
we'll call it step zero, is to define
the content workflow. And it's really
very simple. You've got idea, research,
scripting, recording, and editing. This
is the same five-step workflow that
everybody has to go through to make any
piece of video content. Now, the secret
for winning on social media is to build
a system that lets you get through that
five-step workflow as quickly as
possible while still coming up with
unique ideas, novel angles, winning
hooks, viral scripts, and editing that
actually holds attention. You can't just
build an AI workflow that pumps out bad
AI content, or you won't get the results
you want. So, you need tools that will
speed up the process while also
maintaining the level of quality that
will cut through. And that's the system
we're going to break down right now.
Okay. Step number one in the workflow is
the idea. Most people have absolutely no
process for generating and filtering
ideas. And this first step really is
where the content game is won and lost.
Now, there are three places you can look
to generate winning content ideas. The
first is to just generate them from your
own imagination. We'll call these
originals. The second is to look at
other content platforms outside of your
home base. So, if you're focused on
Instagram, you might look at email
newsletters, X, YouTube, podcasts,
linear TV, blogs, really anywhere that
people are talking about your topic
outside of your home platform. And the
third option for finding ideas is to
look at other creators in your niche on
the home platform that you're focused
on. So, if you're primarily focused on
Instagram, this would be looking at
other creators in your niche
specifically that make short form video
on Instagram. Now the traditional
process for generating ideas, the
nonsismatized approach is what I call
just in time ideiation. This is what
most people do and why creating content
takes so long for them. Every time you
want to make a video, which is usually
every day, you sit down and start
scrolling the feed to find new video
ideas. Now, this process can take 5
minutes or a couple of hours. And people
are doing this every single day. This is
where you're losing a bunch of time and
efficiency. And that's because when you
scroll the feed for ideas, you're
getting maximum noise and minimum
signal. Even though the algorithms are
serving you some good videos in your
niche, you still have to wade through a
bunch of unrelated nonsense. This is all
noise. It's a complete distraction from
your productivity. And what happens, as
we all know, is that every time you open
the feed to scroll for ideas, you end up
getting sucked into something
unproductive or you feel bad about
yourself for the progress that other
people in your space are making. I know
this is what happens because I did the
exact same thing for a very long time.
It takes forever to make content when
you're searching for new ideas every
single day by scrolling. So, here's the
systematized approach for coming up with
ideas that will reduce your ideation
time down to 1 hour per week. You can
spend more time if you want, but you're
not going to have to if you want to go
as fast as possible. All right. First,
you have to understand that the highest
signal source for ideas is option three
that I mentioned before. Option three
was looking at other creators in your
niche on your home platform.
specifically looking at the videos
they've made that have outperformed
everything else that they've posted. We
call these outliers, and this really is
the cheat code for ideiation. Your goal
is to find the outliers that
outperformed everything else and study
why they outperformed. If you can
reverse engineer those pieces, you can
easily make your own and you'll grow a
lot faster. So, here's what I literally
do when it comes to ideation. This is my
actual process. I do this whole thing on
sandcastle.ai. This was my content super
tool built specifically for this
workflow. The first thing I do is make a
watch list of all the creators on my
home platform in my niche that are
crushing with short form content. So for
me in this example that I'm showing you,
it's on Instagram for tech and AI.
That's the niche we're covering. Now
this can be other creators, it can be
brands, it can be faceless channels. It
doesn't matter who it's coming from, but
you need channels that are doing well,
high views, and growing fast. Now, to
find them and add them to my list on
Sand Castles, all I have to do is search
their username or their URL in the
channels tab in the search bar. When
they come up, I click them and I add
them to my list. It could not be easier.
So, I've already done this for Tekken AI
content. I've got these 18 to 20
creators. These are all the best in the
world for my niche and I just added them
one by one following the process I just
went through. Now, on the channels tab
in Sandcastles, you can already see in
the upper left there are over 20,000 of
the top accounts across Instagram, Tik
Tok, and YouTube already loaded into
Sand Castles. You can search those
names, click the card, and they're
available right now. But Sand Castles is
not just limited to those 20,000
channels because you can literally add
anyone else you want just by searching
and importing. All you have to do for
anyone on Instagram, Tik Tok, or YouTube
is just paste in their username or paste
in their URL. If they don't come up,
click add to channel or that add to
channel button on the right side and
then import them. Sand castles will
automatically index their entire backlog
and that person will be included in the
network forever moving forward. So
seeing this, you have unlimited
flexibility to build any list with any
amount of people across Instagram, Tik
Tok, or YouTube, whether they're already
on sand castles today or not. And I'm
telling you, building these watch lists
in Sand Castles is the single greatest
time-saving content productivity hack
you could do. And I'm going to show you
why it's so helpful when it comes to
ideation and the rest of the workflow
right now. All right. Once I have that
watch list built, and it's really just a
onetime effort, I then go to the videos
tab in Sandcastles. On the videos tab, I
can filter by the watch list I just
made. And this shows me all the videos
posted by just those accounts in my
watch list. So what I do after I filter
by the watch list is I go to post date
and I restrict the posts to the last 30
or 60 days. I also go to engagement rate
and I set the minimum to.5%. So I can
filter out all the paid brand deals. And
what is left are the top performing
organic videos from just the accounts in
my watch list over the last month or
two. This is the cream of the crop for
your niche. These are the only videos
you need to study if you want to
replicate the winners. Now, if you want
to surface the top videos from smaller
channels in your niche, any of the
channels with fewer followers that are
growing faster, you just want to sort
this list by outlier score. That tends
to favor the smaller channels. On the
flip side, if you want to see the best
videos at the top from the biggest
channels, I call these the proven
winners or the thoroughbred horses, you
can sort by views instead of outlier
score. This tends to favor the bigger
existing channels over the smaller. If
you want the most recent post by the
last 30 days, you don't really care.
They're organized by performance. You
just want to see the ones that have
posted immediately. Go change the sort
to posted date. So, you pretty much have
three ways to sort the videos. They're
all going to be the same, last 30 or 60
days from your watch list, not including
brand deals, but you can kind of order
the list to favor small, big, or recent,
depending on what you like. Now, all you
have to do from here to get a collection
of winning ideas that have already been
validated in your niche is just watch
the videos one by one. You could watch
10, 50, 100, however many in a batch
that you want to do at one time.
Typically, I like to do maybe 25 to 50
at a given time. Now, this right here,
what you're looking at is pure signal,
no noise for the tech and AI niche that
I've curated over the last couple months
because every single video you watch
here will be a validated winner in your
niche. You don't have to look at
anything unrelated, anything weak or
poor performing. It's all right here.
Cream of the crop. Now, as I'm watching
the individual videos, what I then do is
I extract out seven core variables from
each video. And I just write a couple
words for each of these. The seven core
variables are the following. Topic,
which is just a oneliner describing the
video. Angle, which is a short summary
framing the meat or facts or takes,
really like what makes up the video. So
if topic is a oneliner, the angle or
couple sentences describing the thing
that was covered in the video. Three is
the hook format and that's made up of
the spoken hook, what is actually said,
as well as any notes on the visual hook
that is shown. Four is the story format
or style. This is the way the story
flows and how it's written. Five is the
visual format. So that's the layout of
the visuals. Is it green screen, split
screen, full screen? Like how are the
visuals actually laid out? Six is the
visuals themselves. Are there specific
visuals that really catch your eye?
Maybe it's a 3D render or some AI
generated thing or some AI B-roll where
the background is really cool. And then
seven is audio, the music, the sound
effects, really like the whole audio
vibe of the piece. And I'm just jotting
down a couple of words here and there.
If I have a format that I know the frame
for, I'll write it down. If I don't,
I'll just describe it. Now, what this
allows me to do is that I can map the
components that make up the winning
video. Because when you don't know what
you're doing, when you watch a video,
it's hard to know why you liked it or
why it was interesting. If you break it
into these seven components, you can
start to understand what went into
making up the video that was interesting
or good. What this does is it starts to
build a supererset of options for each
variable. So, for example, let's say I
watched 25 videos about Tekken AI and
these were the best 25 from the last 2
months ranked by views. I went one by
one by one. Now, as I zoomed out at my
paper and I see the seven variables for
each of the 25, I can start to
recognize, oh, for visual formats, there
are only five different visual formats
that show up across the best videos. And
those were green screen, faceless, split
screen, full screen, a-roll, and yap,
for example. There's about 40 different
types of visual formats. We'll have a
doc on sand castles breaking those down,
but let's just say those five were what
I saw over and over. This then becomes
my possible set of formats that I can
choose from when I make my own videos.
So, if I'm lost trying to figure out
what videos will work in tech, I now see
those five visual formats work over and
over. I should pick one of those to
start with on my own version. And this
is super important. The best way to
figure out how to make your videos work
is to find an existing video that
worked. Look at the seven variables and
try to figure out which variables to
keep the same and which variables to
change in your own way. This is kind of
like the scientific method approach for
content and it makes it so much easier
for beginners when you simplify it in
these terms. And so when I go to make a
video, I look at the top of my list and
I see this first topic that I've
extracted and I say, "Okay, if I'm going
to make my version, maybe I keep the
topic and the angle and the hook the
exact same as the reference, but I
completely change the way the story is
told, the visual format that I lay the
visuals out, and the actual visuals that
I'm using. So I keep some the same and I
make some different, and now I've got a
new version. Or maybe I do the flip. I
keep the hook and the story and the
visuals and the audio the same, but I
pick a new topic with a new angle. And
so now I've got their format and
execution, but my own topic and angle.
See, it's a new combination. This idea
phase, this research process is all
about figuring out which variables
worked in your niche, getting that
superset clear, and then knowing which
Lego options you have to build your own
stack. Now, if you want, I will make
another video much slower where I'm
literally clicking through sand castles
and doing this process idea by idea by
idea and walking through how I'm
deciding which to remix. I can make that
for another video. That'll be a full
long tutorial, so I can't include it
here. If you want that, just comment
something like, "Give me the idea sauce
chef" with a little chef emoji with the
chef hat. Just put that in the comments
and I'll know exactly what to do. Now,
I'm telling you, if you spend just a
single hour per week running this
validated idea mining exercise that I
just walked through, you walk away with
dozens of topics, angles, hooks, and
formats that are proven to work in your
niche. And then you can pick and choose
how you stack them up to build your own
signature style. So, step one in the
workflow, remember we're going through
the five-step workflow. We're still in
ideas. Step one is to just run this
process once per week. Now, if you want
to fully systematize this and get
yourself completely out of it like I
did, you can hire someone to run the
process that I just went through. You
could send them this video, train them
up on it, and then they do the idea
mining process for you. The beauty of
Sand Castles is that the person you hire
doesn't need access to your Instagram to
see your algorithm scrolling history.
They can just jump on Sandcastles and
build the watch list the exact same way
you do. So, it'll either take you 1 hour
per week or someone else you hire 1 hour
per week. But we've just reduced your
ideation time down from 5 to 10 hours of
scrolling per week down to one. Now, I
mentioned before those two other paths
for coming up with ideas. One of them
was brainstorming originals and the
other was looking at other content
mediums outside of your home base. For
the originals, when you do come up with
an original idea that you didn't see
anywhere else, just jot that down on a
note and just capture it as they come.
Most people are not going to be able to
come up with a bunch of original ideas
every single day. And so, you don't want
to build a system that relies on that
raw innovation every single time. When
you do come up with an original, what
makes it challenging is that you're
going to have to figure out what all of
those seven variables are. When you find
an outlier, you can decide to hold some
the same and just change a few. But with
an original, you got to build the full
stack on your own without having that
validation. That's why original ideas
are so much harder to make. For the
other content platforms outside of your
home base, if you want to systematize
this as well, you could schedule
intentional scroll time for 20 to 30
minutes per week, or you could use a
product like ChatGBT Pulse. I also like
Feedley, which is kind of like an
aggregator of different blogs and
newsletters. So, you could structure
those kind of aggregation systems to
minimize the amount of time you're
scrolling on all of those surfaces. But
just to frame this, here's how I think
about ideiation. The goal is to make
your ideation process like Grey Goose
vodka. You want it to be four times
distilled. The raw social feeds like
YouTube or X, those are completely
unfiltered. You're getting some
algorithmic direction, but you're also
getting a bunch of random stuff. So,
that's like the base, least filtered
way. Email newsletters give you one
layer of filtering because the people
writing the newsletters are trying to
look at the social feeds and pick out
the best stories. So that helps a little
bit. Now content creators in your niche
are going to be a second layer of
filtering cuz they're reading the email
newsletters and other aggregation
sources and they're only making videos
on the best of the best. Right? So
that's two layers of filtering. Sand
castles with your watch list is
providing a third layer of filtering
because now you're not looking at all
content creators. You're looking at only
content creators that you've hand
selected in your watch list. Then when
you filter the videos feed in
Sandcastles, that's a fourth layer of
filtering because now you're not just
looking at the videos from the creators
you've chosen. You're only looking at
the best videos from the creators you've
chosen. So when you come across an idea
in Sandcastles that's at the top of the
video's feed in the process we just went
through. That's four times distilled.
And that is how you minimize noise and
maximize signal in the ideation process.
All right. So at the end of step one,
you should have a Google doc that has
all of your shortlisted ideas. And for
each of those ideas, you've broken down
in seven bullets the core seven elements
or components that you've extracted. You
don't have to go crazy just jotting down
a few words or phrases here and there so
that you know what the elements were so
you can zoom out and see the patterns.
Now, when it comes time to make your
next video, you're going to pick the
best idea on the top of that list. If
you have anything time-sensitive, you
can prioritize that. But if you don't,
you just pick the one that you're most
excited about. But as I've already
mentioned, you're not just going to
straight copy the topic, the script, the
hook, the angle word for word, because
that would be corny and unoriginal. So
this is where step two comes in, which
is the research. Now, the goal with the
research step is to try to find some
unique take or interesting angle that
can help make your version of the idea a
little bit more unique to you.
Typically, what makes someone's video
original when they're holding the topic
constant is by changing the angle, the
actual meat or facts or take in the
video. Now, the traditional
non-sistatized way to approach research
is then spending another 30 to 60
minutes deep diving and learning
everything you can about the topic so
you can try to build your own take.
Again, that is a lot of time. Some
people are already 2 hours in the
holster on this idea and they haven't
even started scripting yet. But here is
the systematized based approach that I
used for research to get through this
piece a lot faster. In step one, when I
was doing the idea and I was writing
down those seven pieces, I'm watching
the video for 60 seconds one time
through. Now, the goal, as we talked
about, is when you're watching the
video, you're trying to extract those
original components. But now that I'm in
the research phase, I'm going to go back
to that idea and I'm going to ask myself
three questions, trying to find a new
angle that the original creator has
missed. The first question is, what did
I find interesting about the original
video that I wish the creator talked
about more? The second question would
be, what unanswered questions do I have
after watching the original video? And
the third question I ask myself is, what
unanswered questions would a beginner
have after watching that original video?
Now, my goal is to find some additional
information, something the creator
missed that I can use to frame the idea
in a different way. Sometimes, if you're
making content on a topic you already
have a lot of knowledge about, you don't
actually need to go do additional
research, right? Cuz just asking those
three questions might pop an insight or
a fact, something you pull from your own
experience, and that becomes your new
angle. Boom, research done. But if you
don't have experience or original
context on the topic, then you're going
to have to kick into this research phase
to try to find a new perspective. Now,
for me, what happens when I'm in this
mode? I just don't have the knowledge or
perspective on the topic. I'm going to
go to Chat GBT andor YouTube to try to
close this research gap as quickly as
possible. First, I start with Chat GBT.
And when I get there, I use this prompt
every single time. I want to make a
video about X topic. Can you build a
report summarizing what is going on,
breaking down the most interesting
aspects that will induce max shock, and
sharing a super contrarian take on the
implication? Assume I know nothing about
the topic, but I want to know 99% after
reading your report. All I've watched so
far is this video, and then I'll put the
link to the original reference in there.
Now, this is really important. The goal
here is not to do deep research and
spend 20 minutes learning every nook and
cranny about this topic. That is
procrastination. All you need is a short
cliffnotee summary to try to find an
interesting piece that the original
creator missed that you can frame your
video around. Typically, you can close
the gap on this in just 2 to 3 minutes
with ChatGBT. Again, if you want to
systematize this even further, you can
build a chat GPT project that acts like
a template where you paste those
instructions in as a system instructions
and then all you have to do is write in
the topic, paste the link, and it will
generate the report right away. Now,
sometimes if chat GPT isn't enough or
it's just like a really complex thing
where I need a visual to explain, I will
go to YouTube to try to close this gap
on the research, but I know that if I go
to YouTube, the search is not very
optimized. I'm going to end up in a
rabbit hole and I'm going to waste a
bunch of time. So, I try not to do that
unless I really have to. Now, all you're
really looking for at this research
stage are one to two non-obvious
interesting facts and maybe one
contrarian take that the original post
didn't have. If you have a unique
perspective on what the story means,
write it down. If you have a unique take
or angle, write that down. Typically,
shocking and non-obvious truths that you
find that you haven't heard before is
usually all you need to make the angle
compelling. Now, at this point, you
should have spent five, maybe 10
minutes, and you'll have three to five
sentences written down next to the
angle. Right? You've got those seven
bullets. Next to angle, you've got three
to five sentences featuring a breakdown
of the facts or takes that you found
that you think are most interesting.
Now, the AI and the script writing step
will take care of the rest, and I'm
going to go through that in a second.
So, you really don't need to polish it
much beyond this. Again, you can go
longer on this research step if you want
to, but you're not going to have to once
you see the rest of the workflow, and
it's all about deciding where to spend
your time. Now, for me, I have somebody
on my team that does everything we've
walked through so far for me. He runs
through sand castles a couple times a
week. He distills the best ideas. He
goes through this research flow in
chatbt and YouTube to close the gap. And
then we have a call where he pitches me
the ideas one by one and asks me if we
should make them or not. This is what
true content systemization looks like.
So if you've been following along, I've
reduced my personal time involvement in
this flow to zero. The ideas and the
research, I don't do them. I have
someone else doing that for me following
the process I just walked through. For
the guy on my team that does this, I
call this role a content operator. This
person would handle all of the front-end
ideation, the research, and then
ultimately pitch it to you, frame it,
package it up, so you can decide which
ideas to make. Now, if you don't have
somebody on your team that can do this,
or you don't have the resources for it
yet, that's totally fine. You don't need
to have a content operator. But this is
what full systematization would look
like. And that's why I broke down this
whole process step by step so that you
could do it for yourself if you don't
have a content operator. So, so far, the
ideation should have taken you 1 hour
per week, and you can do that in a
batch. And then the research should take
three to five minutes, maybe 10 max per
video if you're really dialing it in
with chatbt. Okay, now we're moving into
step three in the workflow. And this is
the script writing. Coming to this step,
you should have your idea short list.
And each idea, you should have those
seven bullets. And for the angle, you
should have the three to five sentences
that you wrote down from the research.
Specifically, what's most interesting or
non-obvious to you about the topic that
you want to include? And this can be
bullets or sentences. Just write it
clearly in a kind of logical way. It
doesn't have to be in a certain format.
Now, here's where I lean on AI a lot for
this workflow, but I also have a human
review in the loop at the end. I've
spent a long time trying to build a
script writing flow with AI. If you
follow this channel, you know I have
some of the deepest stuff on script
writing when it comes to short form and
long form content. I'm so deep on this
and I've spent so many hours trying to
build this fully automated AI workflow.
But the truth is what I found is that
even the most dialed chatbt or clawed
project just doesn't quite get there
with respect to the consistency that I
want. And if it does nail the flow and
the format, it doesn't sound like me.
And so there's always manual
intervention required. But I will say
the latest version of scripting we have
in Sandcastles is the best AI generated
scripting that I've ever seen. It's the
best in the world. And the reason
Sandcastles works so well, better than
Chad GBT and Claude, even though it's
built on top of those, is that it
doesn't try to oneshot the script. And
this is a really critical thing that we
figured out. There's a feature in Sand
Castles called the Vault, which
approaches content script writing in a
different way than any other platform in
the world. We kind of pioneered this.
The Vault allows you to save components
of outlier videos. Those components that
we extracted in step one with the ideas.
And these components then become
templates that you can use when you're
writing new scripts. As of this
recording, the first two components you
can actually save as templates in the
vault are hooks and styles. Now, hooks
are obviously hooks. is the first few
lines spoken in the video. Styles are a
combination of the writing style. So,
the rhythm, the tone, the pacing, the
flow, like the way it's written, as well
as the storytelling structure, the
actual story flow from section 1, 2, 3,
and how the points go together. We
combine those two things, the style and
flow into one thing called the style.
And so, the full workflow for how you do
this ideation and use the vault is the
following. You find an idea in the
videos tab. You start extracting out
those seven variables. Again, as a
reminder, topic, angle, hook, style,
visual format, visuals, and audio. Those
are the seven variables. Two of those,
hook and style, can be saved into
Sandcastles automatically. And so, what
you do is if you come across a video and
you really like the way it's hooked, you
get hooked, or you like the flow and
structure of the story. All you have to
do is click on that video, get to the
idea detail page, click that button that
says save to vault, and then you can
save the hook andor style. All you have
to do is name it. And for the hook, you
specify the amount of lines in the
transcript that you want to grab as the
hook. Now, what happens next is pretty
magical. When you go to the vault tab,
you can see that hook and style that you
just saved. Now, the hook, as you can
see on the right, shows up at the bottom
as the original word for word hook from
the transcript, but we've also
automatically translated it into a Mad
Lib format. That's what you see on the
top. We've substituted all of the core
words, nouns, emotions, verbs,
adjectives into variables that turn this
into a template that can be used for
other videos. If for whatever reason the
transcript grab or the Mad Lib
translation wasn't perfect, you just hit
the pencil icon and you can edit it
super quickly. This becomes a template
that you can use over and over. Now, on
the style side, we do something similar.
It's even easier. We take the entire
transcript and we save that as a style,
which really can be applied as a lens to
any script. So, it'll make the script
sound like the writing style from the
reference as well as flow in a story
structure in the same way. And I'm going
to show you all this in action in a
minute, but I just want to explain how
the vault works and why it's so powerful
at improving the AI scripting flow. The
cool part with the vault is you can also
manually add in your own hooks or your
own styles. So, if you have a database
of hooks and you don't want to go find a
bunch of references in the videos tab,
you can just take that database, save it
as manual hooks, and then you've got
that in the vault. Same thing with
styles. If you have transcripts you've
already written, save that in, and then
that becomes a style preset that you can
use. But here's where it really comes
into play. Let me show you the
scripting. When you want to script a new
video, and this is step three, you go to
the scripts tab, you press new script,
and you get kicked into the flow. The
first step, of course, is to add your
prompt. This is where you describe what
script you want to write. Now, Sastle
does not require you to write a novel.
All you really need is like three to six
sentences. And what I recommend is just
pasting in the topic and the angle that
you wrote from steps one and two. You've
already got that on your paper. You
don't really even need to format it.
just paste that into the prompt and
press go. Sand Castle will then generate
a full research report based on the
prompt you gave it. Now, this report is
going to drive the meat of what's in the
script, the actual body of the script.
So, you don't have to read it word for
word, but you do want to scroll quickly
and just glance through to make sure
it's including the facts and takes that
you wanted to. The sources that are used
to drive that script are included in
that carousel at the top. But if you
want to change anything, delete
anything, add anything, you just press
the pencil and then you can add that in.
Once you're good with the report, you
press next. And here's where the vault
pieces really come in. Step three in the
workflow is the hook. And immediately
you'll see that all of the hook
templates you've saved in the vault, as
well as a bunch that we include by
default in Sandcastles are there in that
carousel. If you click on one, it will
generate two new hooks in the exact
format as the template, but referring to
the new topic that you're talking about
for this script. And this is how we keep
the exact hook structure consistently
over and over, but give you the
flexibility to use different hooks and
generate different options. You can
click the same Mad Lib a bunch of times
to generate new pairs. You can also pick
a bunch of different ones and you can
basically build a set of 10, 12, 15 hook
options in one spot to pick the best
one. This is the fastest way to create
new hooks that are in consistently
validated formats without having to
write them by hand. Now, once you pick a
hook you like, you can move to the next
step. And similarly, this is where we
use the styles, but it's even easier
because the styles are listed as
template cards and you just click one
and go. This will apply like a lens or a
filter on top of the writing so that the
style and flow works to match the
example. Now once you click go on the
style, the script will automatically
start writing. It will use the prompt
you gave. The body of it will include
based on the research report. It'll use
the hook that you've generated and the
style. This is how you modularly use
components that were validated to get
the script to sound way better on the
first rip. What we found is that this
flow results in the most dialed first
generation short form script in the
world. Now, of course, the scripting
process does not end here because
typically I will spend 5 to 10 minutes
cleaning this up by hand. The goal is to
get this process to be automatic and
hands-free every single time. And to be
honest, in certain niches with certain
templates, you can probably get there
without touching it. For me, since I'm a
perfectionist, I still like coming in
and tweaking a couple words here and
there. To solve for this in Sand
Castles, the script editor literally
works like a Google doc. You can read
it, make adjustments, it'll save
automatically. You could highlight
sections and then use the prompt below
that would just apply the edits to the
highlighted piece and leave everything
else alone. If you want to apply edits
to the whole thing, highlight nothing
and write those. You can change the
length. You can swap the hooks. You can
swap the facts. You can look and review
the previous versions to see the diff
mode to see what's changed. We've really
built every piece of functionality you
would want in the script writing
experience in here. Even though the
first generation is good 95% of the way
out of the box, this AI plus human combo
using the AI and preset template hooks
and styles plus my own manual editing to
go the last mile is my favorite workflow
right now for script writing for short
form content. Typically, this entire
flow for the scripting takes about 5 to
10 minutes per script. And again, if you
want to go full systemization, you could
of course have your content operator do
this as well. All right, step four is
the recording. Now, today I'm not
actually using any AI tools in my
recording process. I might look robotic,
but hopefully you can tell by these
hands, I'm a human. And I'm not using AI
in the recording because the costbenefit
analysis doesn't really make sense for
me. Despite not using a teleprompter and
still reading my scripts one line at a
time, the whole recording process for a
short form video only takes me like 10
minutes. But the alternative, using an
AI avatar with Hey Genen and a
professional voice clone with 11 Labs,
would only save me those 10 minutes. But
the cost would be me having a much more
robotic monotone delivery in my videos.
Now, I know several creators that are
fully AI generated when it comes to
short form and it works really well.
They don't even log into their
Instagram. They have an editor
somewhere. That editor has access to
their AI avatar and literally just
prints videos for them saying the script
that they type in. Verun Maya, Rowan
Chung, Nick Serev, they all do that and
they're crushing when it comes to views
in the tech and AI niche. But
personally, I haven't been able to get
this AI avatar, AI voice workflow
working in a way that makes me feel like
I'm still delivering at the quality and
trust that people have known to expect.
I will say a huge pro of figuring out AI
automation is that it allows someone
like your content operator to actually
do the scripting and recording for you
without you needing to log in. So today,
I'm kind of a bottleneck in the human
process. If I have a horse voice or my
eyes are swollen, I then can't record
and that slows everything down. But with
the AI avatar stack, you don't really
have that problem. you can always have
the exact avatar delivery that you
expect. So, for beginners, I don't
recommend offloading the full recording
process to an AI avatar. It's a lot to
take on before you have all the rest of
the variables dialed, but as you get
better, if you really don't like this
recording process and you want to save
10 minutes per rep, this is something
you can look to include. All right, step
five, the final step in the workflow is
the editing. And before we get into the
editing, let's just recap how much time
we've saved in the workflow thus far by
using this kind of like AI plus human
system that I've walked through. If
you're going fully manual without a
content operator, you are currently at 1
hour per week on the ideation, 3 to
five, 10 minutes max on the research, 10
minutes max on the script writing, and
then 10 minutes on the recording. So,
this is about 30 minutes total per rep
before the editing, not counting the
ideation, which is a lot of hours saved
from how you were probably doing it
before if you were manually doing
everything. If you have a content
operator and you're still recording
manually, then the only time you're
going to have to spend per rep is 10
minutes on the recording. If you have a
content operator and you're using the AI
avatar, so far you've spent zero minutes
in this process at all. And this is
really what true systematization looks
like. Now, when it comes to editing,
this is the final frontier. I predict
we're going to have lots of people that
have systematized this whole workflow up
to the editing, but they're still going
to need a human in the loop to do that
last piece because there is not a great
AI tool stack or workflow to do the
editing automatic in the same way as the
other things I've talked about. Now,
there's a lot of startups trying to
crack this, and there's a lot of pretty
average automated editing tools, but
none of it will cut above the quality
line that I know you think you need. So,
if you're trying to go full workflow
optimization, you've really got two
paths on the editing. Path one is to
edit it manually yourself if you have no
resources, but just time, but go with
something lower, green screen, yap,
fewer cuts, more value, more kind of
like longer delivery to minimize the
time in. These types of edits tend to
work better on Tik Tok over Instagram,
especially if you're in a highv value
education niche. If you do this, each
edit will probably take you 30 to 60
minutes. And obviously, you can scale
that time up with more quality if you
want all the whisbangs and flashes. Path
two is to hire a human editor in the
loop to do the editing for you. The
harsh truth and reality is this. No
content system is designed so that the
creator is editing manually themselves.
That's just not how you save the most
time. And I totally empathize that
everybody watching this is at a
different stage. You may not have the
resources to have an editor. You may
have tried but have had it churn out.
The reality is you're going to pay for
the editing one way or the other. You're
either going to pay with time or you're
going to pay with money to buy back your
time. So once you have the resources to
buy back your time, you should do it
because editing is the thing that you
can replace and save the biggest chunk
the quickest. Now, if you want to hire
my editing team that does these YouTube
videos and also every single one of my
shorts, responsible for like billions of
views on Short Form, I've got a link
below where you can apply and I'll
connect you with that exact team. But
even if you don't, the last mile of your
content workflow to really extract
yourself out is going to be figuring out
how to delegate away the editing from
you. Now, as soon as there is an editing
workflow that's feasible with AI, I will
be the first one on this channel to tell
you what it is, to show you, etc., but I
don't expect that to come for a while.
Now, one small tip I will say in terms
of working with an editor to help
empower them with AI. There are, of
course, tons of AI image and video tools
that can be really helpful for
generating visuals used in your edits
much faster. things like Nano Banana,
Veo3, Cling 2.1, Midjourney, like these
are all the staple tools for AI image
and video. My pro tip for you and what
we do on our team is have a virtual
credit card that you give to each editor
that allows them to go freely use and
try any of the AI tool subscriptions
that they want. This gives them the
freedom to experiment and also builds
into the workflow Veo3, Midjourney,
Clling, all these tools that improve the
quality of your edits and the speed that
they can do it. So, it's not an
automation workflow with respect to AI
replacing them, but it is turning your
human editors into 10x machines. So,
there you have it. This is the latest
and greatest as of today, my best
five-step workflow for systematizing
content with AI tools and different
human processes to speed it up. I went
from spending 4 to 6 hours, sometimes 8
hours per rep to spending only 15, 20,
maybe 30 minutes max each rep myself.
And then I have a team that's helping to
fill the rest of the gaps. Again,
everybody watching this is going to be
in a different financial position, a
different place in the journey. You may
not have room for the editor. You may
not have room for the content operator.
Just know this. I personally spent the
first 18 months, the first 300 reps
editing myself. I did all of this myself
manually and then I edited 6 to 8 hours.
I couldn't free myself up to really
fulfill my potential until I was able to
hire myself out of the editing and move
forward from there. So, as soon as you
have the funds to be able to hire an
editor and ultimately a content
operator, I would do it. But even in the
meantime, using tools like sand castles
and chatbt will save you significant
time, even if you're doing the manual
editing yourself. As always, guys, I'm
trying to bring the absolute best, the
sauce, when it comes to content, right?
I'm trying to be the guy for short form
video and long form video that you look
to that just gives so much value, you
can't ignore the video. If that's you,
if you're a business owner and you're
trying to use content to grow, you know
what to do. Make sure to subscribe to
the channel, leave a comment, tell me
what you want to see next. And of
course, I mention this in every video.
I've got a free community for
entrepreneurs and business owners. It's
called Wavy World. I've got 65 free
trainings like this that are all
organized for you. Everything from
YouTube, short form, ideas, algorithms,
editing, all types of tutorials is in
there. And we have over 37,000
entrepreneurs that are all working
together to improve their own content.
So, if you want a peer group, if you
want more free training, if you want
more free access, definitely make sure
to join. and it's called Wavy World. And
I've got a free invite link for you in
the description. All right, we will see
you guys on the next one.